SAMADHI EIS
More than just ice cream

Yoga and ice cream? How does that come together?
Sure! Why not? Ice cream is one of the most enjoyable inventions in history!
We live in a time where conscious choices and the holistic effects of our actions have a greater impact not only on our existence as human beings and on our society but also on our planet as a whole. We are becoming more aware of what our food consists of and how it is produced. For us, as practitioners of yoga and meditation, "cruelty-free" and "sustainability" are particularly important.
 Our ice cream is handcrafted, vegan and made with love. The simple and natural recipe based on cashew nuts, coconut milk and soya milk was developed by a yoga monk. We use cane sugar and agave syrup as sweeteners. For the fruit varieties we use freshly made fruit purees where possible, and for the nut varieties we add  pure nut butter to the basic mix. However, we also offer soya-free and sugar-free flavours.  The sugar free flavours are sweetened with dates instead of sugar. Our ice cream contains no milk or dairy products and no ingredients of animal origin. It is also gluten-free.


THE YOGA OF ICE CREAM
Yoga means "union". It seeks an internal and external harmony, a dynamic balance between body, mind and spirit.
A good ice cream also requires a perfect balance between sugar, fat, proteins, ice and air.
Just as Yoga depends on subtle vibrations to elevate the mind, our ice cream is made in a positive environment, where we sing and listen to Mantra music, creating a pleasant and harmonious atmosphere during the production process - a secret ingredient of our ice cream.
Yoga is also known to be healthy for the body, mind and spirit, similarly the process and natural ingredients in Samadhi Eis makes our ice cream an ideal choice for those who are health conscious and environmentally conscious.
In short, Samadhi Eis is a fusion of delicious taste sensations, wholesome ingredients and positive vibrations!

OUR STORY
After learning meditation in 1986 and becoming a vegetarian I soon had my first experience in the food industry on the streets of Johannesburg in South Africa. Street food carts had just become legal and I naively thought a vegetarian hot dog stand would be the biggest sensation in food.
It wasn't.... and after a few months I sold the cart for less than I paid for it.
It served as a timely reminder that the real world does not always follow our dreams.
The kitchen,  has always been a place for me to express my creativity. Living a number of years in Italy I learned a lot about cuisine and it was also there that I first came into contact with the art of ice cream.
In the summer of 2017 at our meditation centre in Wendelsheim in Rheinland Pfalz, in Germany, we completed the renovations as we transformed an old bakery into an Ice cream production kitchen and the production of vegan ice cream started, initially using the recipe of an Italian company.

The first oppurtunity to sell our new product was at a festival in a neighbouring village. We got a place on the festival field. However, after a few days of persistent rain, the field had turned into a mud bath. The day before the festival, our ice cream machine broke down and we had to replace it. On the first day of the festival we had no customers as nobody wanted to venture into the mud bath. The second day, when we arrived at our stand, we realised that someone had taken out the electricity during the night and the watery mixture left over from all the ice cream had to be thrown away. I hastily returned home to make more ice cream with the newly acquired machine. A few hours later, I returned to our stand to discover that no one wanted to venture into the mud bath yet.
I had hit rock bottom.
On the last day the sun came out and we sold a few ice creams, but it was small consolation for the huge economic loss of the weekend.
It was a humbling introduction to the ice cream business.

As a yogi, you realise the importance of obstacles on the path. They teach us as long as we want to learn from them.

We started to produce ice cream and sell our ice cream in festivals.
It was not long and the creative part in me became restless to abandon the beaten track and embrace a new path.
The winter of 2017 served as a time to explore and experiment and through trial and a lot of error, I come up with an entirely new recipe with Cashew nut and Coconut milk as the main ingredients of the base. By the Summer of 2018 we could offer a selection of up to 16 different flavours.
Relentless efforts to keep improving the recipe enabled the discovery of different flavours including those with no added sugar, sweetened only with dates.
With increasing interest in our product in the Hamburg- Berlin area, in the winter of 2018, it was time to make an important strategic decision;....to move north.
So the New Year of 2019 brought with it a new location.......in Hanover
new challenges and new oppurtunities. 
We sold our product in different fairs and festivals and it was becoming popular.

Then came Covid, all festivals ground to a halt. We left Hanover and decided to open a small ice cream parlour in Friedrichshain in Berlin.
It was a brave decision to start a shop during Covid which never really got off the ground and so in 2022 we decided to return to our roots and moved back to Wendelsheim.
Since then we are regular participants in festivals in the summer throughout Germany, and with demand increasing for our ice cream, we are considering options how customers could order our ice cream online and all year round.
I’ve always been fascinated with how a simple meal prepared by one's mother at home often tastes better than an expensive meal in a restaurant. The ingredient of love makes all the difference.
As a yogic monk producing ice cream perhaps the altruistic spirit is the special attribute I bring to the picture. We are producing ice cream not to make money, but to communicate a deeper message of tolerance and respect for our environment and convey a profound sense of love for what we do.


FLAVOURS
In addition to the traditional flavours from the Italian culture, such as pistachio, hazelnut and nougat, Samadhi ice cream has developed some exotic flavours that you should definitely try: Ube from the Philippines,  a unique vegan version of Kulfi, the cult ice cream from India, and other unique combinations such as Blueberry and Lavander and  Macadamia and Mastic

Here is a list of the ice cream flavours that we produce at present.
Pistachio, Mango, Lavander and Blueberry, Ube, Hazelnut with no added sugar, Walnut and Figs, Lemon, Vanille, Coconut, Strawberry, Dark Chocolate,  Salty Peanut, Kulfi, Dubai Chocolate, Macadamia and Mastic...

SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
more than just ice cream
The profits of Samadhi Eis are dedicated to supporting social projects. Since 2022 we are supporting a Rehabilitation Centre in Central Ukraine which is helping people who suffer from the effects of the war.
Samadhi Eis also supports initiatives to assist animals in distress and environmentally friendly projects.





